# Sensing-IoT
Music and Heartrate
Music is one of the most popular leisure activities and has been present in “every known culture on earth”. Yet, this activity is still described as one of human’s most “enigmatic behaviours”. This enigma largely stems from the extreme variation and unpredictability of listening activities in humans. Some studies have hypothesised that this variation stems from the fact that people listen to music with different pleasures and motivations – which are derived from cultural, social and personal histories. Similar to DNA, each of these dimensions is hugely complex, and when combined, we realise that how unlikely it would be for a set of individuals to share an identical listening motivation. Typically, when scholars encounter social enigma’s they seek clarity in source and origin, however, due to the nature of sound, there is no physical evidence of prehistoric music (if only cavemen had recording studios).  Therefore the exact function(s) of music in relation to human psychology is yet to be accurately modelled.

The recent and rapid technological advancements in the modern world have led to the excessive generation of human data trails that can be used to define and predict human behaviours. In the context of music, Spotify is currently the world’s largest music streaming platform that leverages user data to offer a hyper-personalised service. This year, personalised features included a yearly summary of users’ listening activities called “Spotify Wrapped”. Part of this feature includes a section called “Audio Aura” whereby Spotify used song features to predict user’s listening “moods” which could potentially offer behavioural insights associated with the function(s) of music. These moods were generated with the combination of different Spotify audio features, such as danceability, energy,  acoustics, tempo etc.

Given the introduction and context, my objectives for this project are, therefore:

1.	Add another layer of biometric data to Spotify’s audio features, but rather than predicting “moods”, I want to establish the mathematical relationship between audio features and heartrate. 
2.	Utilize the technical setup required to complete objective 1 to efficiently generate visual artwork that incorporates my weekly listening activity and heart rate. This objective stems from the reaction of Spotify’s wrapped feature, suggesting that users enjoy receiving personalized and sharable content.  
3.	Host and display all data and findings from objective 1 as well as the weekly generated artwork from objective 2 on a live web application. 

Heart rate cannot be directly linked to the associated behavioural motivations of music listening, however, heartrate can be linked to physical/situational context. Here’s an intuitive example: When exercising (the physical/situational context) I listen to electronic music, however, when studying in the library, I prefer classical music. I hypothesise that different genres and their associated audio features will correlate to different physical/situational contexts and their associated heart rates.  
